most bridges are only the backdrop of
countless railway tales but the historic
Handyside bridge has made a journey of
its own built in 1892 at a cost of a
mere 3500 pounds by the Handyside
company and without the illustrious name
at Bose today the bridge greeted
passengers at London's landmark Kings
Cross station for over a century and as
well as starring in films such as
Elizabethan Express 439 steps and The
Ladykillers
it was a triumphant finishing line for
Mallards world steam speed record in
1938 a record that still stands to this
day
of course the bridge also holds a
special place in the heart of the
hogwarts faithful as one of the key bits
of muggle turf young wizards walked
across in the harry potter series the
harry potter bridge is part of a family
of world-renowned landmarks to be
constructed by andrew handy sides darby
Ferb among the famed array of monuments
produced alongside it a London's Albert
bridge and Kensington Olympia as well as
both Manchester and Amsterdam central
stations as redevelopment at Kings Cross
went ahead however it soon became
apparent the historic grade 1 Victorian
bridge was at risk of being scrapped
Andrew handy cites creation would need
to be uprooted quickly the equally
historic watercress line seemed like the
perfect home with its busy roughly
station eager for another foot bridge
built stations unconventional layout
however means its requirements are
difficult to meet by just any bridge the
footbridge needs to stretch a staggering
5 tracks as opposed to the usual two in
the space of 48 hours the Handyside
bridge leaves Kings Cross for good
preparing to make roughly its new home a
bridge where the Hollywood CV also needs
a stellar supporting cast enter the
country's largest high up crane it's
called on to do the honors of lifting
the heaviest components of the Victorian
structure
the remote control alone for this
mechanical behemoth cost 3000 pounds
making it one of the largest not to
mention priciest boys toys the
foundations are laid down each bolt
falls into place and the bridge begins
to nestle into its new dwelling place
when moving tons of conjoined wrought
and cast-iron measurements down to the
nearest detail are vital but the bridge
matches the sight perfectly clicking
together to the nearest half millimeter
the move comes together flawlessly now
begins the fun part a 1944 vintage
breakdown crane running on its own steam
arrives on track to raise six columns
and four main spans of balustrade the D
s 1580 crane has a lifting capacity of
45 tons
not to be upstaged a ballerina active
two cranes working in tandem is required
to raise the hefty segments of the
bridge manipulating the entire weight
and placement of each component ensuring
each beat is here to stay
the feat requires almost telepathic
skill between each cranes operator as
the two no miscommunication could be
costly each good of the Handy side
bridge is shot blasted and copiously
topped with greens and on the livery of
its new residence four bits of new
lattice balustrade constructed by the
hands of East Lee's best to meticulously
match the existing plants of the Handy
side bridge of course the sturdiness of
the old Victorian design comes at a
price
mass weighing in at a hundred and eighty
tons the heaviest parts of the structure
the balustrade components begins to
cause problems crossing the countryside
with over a century's worth of
engineering history and almost two
hundred tonnes requires the steadiest of
precision often the path underneath is
simply not up to the task
carrying such a heavy load one of the
loaded lorries get stuck on route hiring
a heavy recovery truck to take up time
and substantial cost the railways vigor
comes to the rescue
as the ballast rates trap lorry is towed
out and the journey continues as planned
over 600 workdays of volunteer and 400
workdays of contractor labor in the span
of two years have led up to this moment
and slowly but surely Rocklea station
finds itself sporting a new elaborate
look in its characteristic vintage
fashion visitors now have the perfect
vantage point to admire the water crest
lines major works top 30 components come
together to comprise the main staircase
and smoke hoods are erected ensuring
visitors can enjoy the footbridge at
their own leisure
everything about the water crest line is
brimming with history whether you are
nine or ninety a Gryffindor or a
Hufflepuff a steam train fanatic or just
a modern adventurer in all things
historic handy sides Harry Potter bridge
will have a story for you
you